"Before we wrap up this session,
let me show you a few more useful commands,"
says Dave.
"Let's start with SSH,"
he says.
SSH is used for logging into
and executing commands on a remote computer.
The command syntax for this
is SSH followed by the IP address
or hostname of the server
you want to connect to.
You can also pass in the user
you want to connect
as with the SSH command
by using the @ symbol before the hostname
or by using the -L flag.
The remote server, however,
should have an SSH service running
in port 22 accessible from the client
for the connection to work.
Another requirement
is a valid username and password
created on the remote system that you can use
or something known as an SSH key
that you can use to login
to the remote machine without a password.
We will take a look at SSH keys soon,
but before that,
let's see an example.
If you want to connect
to the dev web-server from your laptop,
you can issue the SSH command this way;
SSH dev app01,
where dev app01 is the hostname
for the dev web server.
Since a username has not been specified,
it will try to log in as the current user.
If the connection to the remote server
is successful,
it will ask you for the password
for the same user on the remote system
If you provide a valid user and password,
you should be taken
to the shell on the dev server.
In this example,
your laptop from which you are trying
to connect is the client
and the remote web server,
which has the SSH service running,
is the server.
What we have seen here
is a simple way to access a remote server
using the SSH client.
We have used the username and password
as the means of authentication.
Now, if you don't want to pass in
a username and password every time,
you can also implement
the password-less authentication.
To do this,
we need to first generate a key pair
on the client.
A key pair, as the name suggests,
consists of two pairs of keys.
The first is a private key.
Consider this as the key only you
as the client will have
and is not shared with anyone else.
The second is a public key.
As the name suggests, it's public
and hence can be shared with others,
including our remote server.
When the public key is installed
on the remote server,
you can unlock it by connecting to it
with a client that already has the private key.
"We will use this opportunity to set up
password-less SSH between your laptop
and the dev web server where you have to get
your application running,"
says Dave.
Bob likes this idea.
This means that he won't have to enter
his password repeatedly
while working on the project.
First, create the key pair on the client,
which is your laptop
using the SSH keygen command.
When you run this command,
it will ask you to enter a passphrase.
This is optional,
but improves the security of the key
should it become compromised.
The only downside to having a passphrase
is then having to type it in
each time you use the key pair.
Note the output from the command
and you will see that the public key
is stored at
/home/bob/.ssh/id_rsa.pub.
It's easy to identify it
with its .pub extension.
The private key is stored at
/home/bob/.ssh/id_rsa file.
The next step
is to copy the public key to the remote server.
To do this, you will have to resort
to password-based authentication
at least once.
An easy way to do this
is to make use of the command
called ssh-copy-id,
which should be installed in the system
by default.
Use the command as shown here,
specifying the user,
which in our case is Bob,
and the remote server name or IP.
Once you enter the command,
you will be asked to enter the password
for your user on the remote server.
After this,
you should be able to access the remote server
without entering a password
and sure enough,
when Bob tries it,
he is not asked to enter the password
and is taken directly to the shell
of the remote web server.
Bob is pleased with that.
"So my public key is installed
in the dev server now?"
he asks.
Dave replies,
"Yes, that is correct.
It is installed in a specific file
called authorized_keys,
which should be inside
a hidden directory called SSH
inside your home directory
on the remote server."
If you open this file,
you should see the public key
from your laptop listed here.
Now that you know how SSH works,
let's see another useful tool called SCP.
You should be familiar with the cp command,
which allows us to copy files
and directories
within the file systems in Linux.
SCP allows you to copy data over SSH.
This means that you can copy files
and directories
between your laptop
and any other server
to which you have SSH access.
Say you want to copy a compressed file
called calestone-code.tgz
from your home directory on the laptop
to a remote web server named devapp01.
As long as you can SSH to the web server,
you can copy the files like this.
The files will be copied
to the directory you specify
after the colon following the webserver.
In this case,
we are copying the files
to the home directory in the destination.
Remember, you should have permission
to write to the directory
and the destination
or else the SCP command will fail
with a permission denied error.
If you want to copy directories
instead of files,
use the -r option with SCP,
and to preserve the ownership
and permission of the source file,
make use of the -pflag.
These commands are bound to be useful
when Bob tries to migrate the Django project
from his laptop to the dev servers.
That brought the session to an end.
Bob thanks Dave for another useful lesson
and heads back to his desk.